Copyright 2014-2022 The Khronos Group Inc.

This Specification is protected by copyright laws and contains material
proprietary to Khronos. Except as described by these terms, it or any
components may not be reproduced, republished, distributed, transmitted,
displayed, broadcast or otherwise exploited in any manner without the
express prior written permission of Khronos.

Khronos grants a conditional copyright license to use and reproduce the
unmodified Specification for any purpose, without fee or royalty, EXCEPT no
licenses to any patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights are
granted under these terms. Parties desiring to implement the Specification
and make use of Khronos trademarks in relation to that implementation, and
receive reciprocal patent license protection under the Khronos IP Policy
must become Adopters and confirm the implementation as conformant under the
process defined by Khronos for this Specification; see
https://www.khronos.org/adopters.

Khronos makes no, and expressly disclaims any, representations or
warranties, express or implied, regarding this Specification, including,
without limitation: merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose,
non-infringement of any intellectual property, correctness, accuracy,
completeness, timeliness, and reliability. Under no circumstances will
Khronos, or any of its Promoters, Contributors or Members, or their
respective partners, officers, directors, employees, agents or
representatives be liable for any damages, whether direct, indirect, special
or consequential damages for lost revenues, lost profits, or otherwise,
arising from or in connection with these materials.

This Specification has been created under the Khronos Intellectual Property
Rights Policy, which is Attachment A of the Khronos Group Membership
Agreement available at https://www.khronos.org/files/member_agreement.pdf.

// "Successor Specification" section

This Specification contains substantially unmodified functionality from, and
is a successor to, Khronos specifications including OpenGL, OpenGL ES and
OpenCL.

// End "Successor Specification" section

// "Normative Wording" section

The Khronos Intellectual Property Rights defines the terms 'Scope',
'Compliant Portion', and 'Necessary Patent Claims'.

Some parts of this Specification are purely informative and so are EXCLUDED from
the Scope of this Specification. The <<introduction-conventions>> section of the
<<introduction>> defines how these parts of the Specification are identified.

Where this Specification uses <<introduction-technical-terminology,technical
terminology>>, defined in the <<glossary, Glossary>> or otherwise, that
refer to enabling technologies that are not expressly set
forth in this Specification, those enabling technologies are EXCLUDED from
the Scope of this Specification. For clarity, enabling technologies not
disclosed with particularity in this Specification (e.g. semiconductor
manufacturing technology, hardware architecture, processor architecture or
microarchitecture, memory architecture, compiler technology, object oriented
technology, basic operating system technology, compression technology,
algorithms, and so on) are NOT to be considered expressly set forth; only
those application program interfaces and data structures disclosed with
particularity are included in the Scope of this Specification.

For purposes of the Khronos Intellectual Property Rights Policy as it
relates to the definition of Necessary Patent Claims, all recommended or
optional features, behaviors and functionality set forth in this
Specification, if implemented, are considered to be included as Compliant
Portions.

// End "Normative Wording" section

// "External References" section

Where this Specification identifies specific sections of external
references, only those specifically identified sections define
<<introduction-normative-references, normative>>
functionality. The Khronos Intellectual Property Rights Policy excludes
external references to materials and associated enabling technology not
created by Khronos from the Scope of this specification, and any licenses
that may be required to implement such referenced materials and associated
technologies must be obtained separately and may involve royalty payments.

// End "External References" section

ifndef::ratified_core_spec[]
This document contains extensions which are not ratified by Khronos, and as
such is not a ratified Specification, though it contains text from (and is a
superset of) the ratified Vulkan Specification. The ratified versions of the
Vulkan Specification can be found at
https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.2/html/vkspec.html (core
only) and
https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.2-khr-extensions/html/vkspec.html
(core with KHR extensions).
endif::ratified_core_spec[]

Khronos and Vulkan are registered trademarks of The Khronos Group Inc.
OpenCL is a trademark of Apple Inc.; and OpenGL and OpenGL ES are registered
trademarks of Hewlett Packard Enterprise, all used under license by Khronos.
ASTC is a trademark of ARM Holdings PLC. All other product names,
trademarks, and/or company names are used solely for identification and
belong to their respective owners.
